If the third-party server's POST method works correctly when called via Postman but returns a 500 Internal Server Error when invoked from Azure Logic Apps, there could be a few potential causes. Here’s a troubleshooting guide:

1. Check Request Format in Logic App

Headers: Ensure that the request headers (e.g., Content-Type, Authorization, etc.) in Logic App are exactly the same as in Postman. Small differences in headers can cause issues, especially with content type (application/json, application/x-www-form-urlencoded, etc.).

Body: Verify that the request body structure (JSON, XML, etc.) is identical. Sometimes Logic Apps may pass in a slightly different format if not configured properly.


2. Check for Authentication Differences

If the third-party server requires authentication (e.g., API key, OAuth token, etc.), ensure that the Logic App is sending the exact same authentication details as Postman.

For OAuth, ensure the token is valid and refreshed properly.

For API keys or Basic Authentication, double-check the header values.


3. Examine Error Response

Check the detailed error message or logs from the third-party server if available. A 500 Internal Server Error is a generic error, but additional error logs from the server could give more insight into what went wrong.

Sometimes APIs return more verbose error messages that are not visible by default in Logic Apps. Enable tracking and review the full response in the Logic App Run History.


4. Enable Logic App Diagnostics

In the Azure Portal, you can go to the Logic App, then select the Run History for the specific execution.

Review the input and output of each step. Ensure the data being sent in the Logic App matches what was successful in Postman.


5. Network Issues or Timeouts

Check if the request from Logic App is timing out or if the third-party server is rejecting the connection due to network rules or restrictions.

Some APIs have rate limits or IP restrictions that could block Azure Logic Apps from making the request. Confirm with the third-party if there are any IP restrictions that may block Azure Logic App requests.

You can also try adding retries or increase timeout settings in Logic Apps.


6. Check Logic App Settings (HTTP Action Configuration)

Ensure the HTTP action in the Logic App is configured correctly:

Method: Make sure the correct method (POST) is selected.

Authentication: If using a Managed Identity or API connection, ensure that it has the right permissions.

Timeout: Make sure the request timeout isn't too short, causing premature failure.

Retry Policy: Adjust retry policies or error handling strategies.



7. Test Logic App HTTP Request with Mock API

To isolate the issue, you can temporarily modify the Logic App to send the same request to a mock API service (like httpbin.org) and see if the request works. This can help determine if the problem is with the request itself or specific to the third-party server.

Example:

{
  "method": "POST",
  "uri": "https://httpbin.org/post",
  "headers": {
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
  },
  "body": {
    "test": "data"
  }
}

8. Third-Party API Debugging (If Possible)

If you have access to the third-party server’s logs, review the incoming request when it’s triggered by Logic Apps. Compare that request to the one from Postman to find any differences.

9. API Version or Environment Difference

Ensure that the environment or API endpoint being targeted by Logic Apps is the same as the one you’re testing with Postman. If Postman is using a dev/staging environment and Logic Apps is targeting production, there might be environment-specific issues causing the 500 error.


10. Data Serialization/Encoding Issues

Logic Apps might handle data serialization slightly differently than Postman. Ensure the data being sent (especially JSON or form data) is serialized and encoded properly. Some APIs are strict about the structure of data they receive.



---

By following these steps, you should be able to identify the root cause of the 500 Internal Server Error when calling the third-party POST method from Logic Apps.

